Workstations and high end personal computers
have been able to manipulate digital audio pretty easily for about fifteen years now.
It's only been about five years that a decent workstation's been able to handle
raw video without a lot of expensive special purpose hardware.
But today even most cheap home PCs have the processor power and
storage necessary to really toss raw video around,
at least without too much of a struggle.
So now that everyone has all of this cheap capable hardware,
more people, not surprisingly, want to do interesting
things with digital media, especially streaming.
YouTube was the first huge success, and now everybody wants in.
Well good!  Because this stuff is a lot of fun!
It's no problem finding consumers for digital media.
But here, I'd like to address the engineers, the mathematicians,
the hackers, the people who are interested in discovering
and making things and building the technology itself.
The people after my own heart.
Digital media, compression especially, is perceived to be super-elite,
somehow incredibly more difficult than anything else in computer science.
The big industry players in the field don't mind this perception at all;
it helps justify the staggering number of very basic patents they hold.
They like the image that their media researchers are the best of the best,
so much smarter than anyone else that their brilliant ideas can't
even be understood by mere mortals.
This is bunk.
Digital audio and video and streaming and compression
offer endless deep and stimulating mental challenges,
just like any other discipline.
It seems elite because so few people have been been involved.
So few people have been involved perhaps because so few people
could afford the expensive, special-purpose equipment it required.
But today, just about anyone watching this video has a cheap,
general-purpose computer powerful enough to play with the big boys.
There are battles going on today around HTML5 and browsers
and video and open vs. closed.
So now is a pretty good time to get involved.
The easiest place to start is probably understanding
the technology we have right now.
This is an introduction.
Since it's an introduction, it glosses over a ton of details
so that the big picture's a little easier to see.
Quite a few people watching are going to be way past anything
that I'm talking about, at least for now.
On the other hand, I'm probably going to go too fast for folks
who really are are brand new to all of this, so if this is all new, relax.
The important thing is to pick out any ideas  that really grab your imagination.
Especially pay attention to the terminology surrounding those ideas,
because with those, and Google, and Wikipedia, you can dig
as deep as interests you.
So, without any further ado,
welcome to one hell of a new hobby.